The Boy and the Baker by vOz
Hope is a meager substitute for success.
An elderly baker walking to his shop sees a young boy being bullied and beaten by a
gang of older kids.
He shouts and the gang of kids run off.
He goes to the boy who is shaken and bruised.
The compassionate baker puts his arm around him and takes him to his shop.
Once inside he asks the boy,
Where are your parents?
The boy meekly replies,
I have no parents.
I am all alone.
The baker seeing the lost look in the boy's eye understands he is one of many children,
abandoned and alone, living on the streets.
Like so many, he has no experience, family, just a dangerous and tenuous future.
The kind-hearted baker asks him if he'd like to help him make bread.
The boy nods his head and the baker takes him into his kitchen.
The boy watches as the baker assembles the ingredients, puts them in a bowl, and mixes
them together.
He sprinkles flour on a wooden table and begins kneading the dough.
Once he finished, he placed the dough in a pan and covered it with a towel.
Curious, the boy asks,
Why do you do this?
The baker replied,
Once the dough has formed, it needs time to rest and grow.
After the dough has risen, the baker placed the uncooked bread into the oven.
Both watched as the bread begins to rise as it cooks.
The dough transforms into a brown, crusty, aromatic morsel of delight.
This is a miracle of life, the baker says.
Now the bread rises to nourish our bodies and help us grow.
The baker smiles at the boy and gives him the bread as a gift.
The boy thanks the baker and exits the shop, returning to the streets.
Not far from the baker's shop, he finds an alley where he can rest and eat the bread.
The next morning, as the baker leaves his shop, he spots a crowd of people watching
as a policeman is arresting the boy.
The baker quickly runs and asks,
What has the boy done?
He killed a man.
The baker follows them as they head to the police station.
The boy is taken into the back, and the baker asks if he could speak with the boy.
The jailer gives permission, and the baker is taken to his cell.
He asks,
What happened, my boy?
Sadly, the boy tells the baker,
When he went to sit and eat the bread, the other boys saw what he had.
They attacked him, and during the fight one of the boys was severely injured and died.
He didn't know how it happened, but he was the only one there when the policeman arrived.
Time came when the boy was taken before a judge.
Having no one to speak for him, he was found guilty of murder and sentenced to death.
On his last day, the boy received a visitor.
It was the kind-hearted baker who brought him bread.
The boy takes the bread, and the baker, in a reassuring voice, speaks to the boy.
Do you remember the night in my shop when I told you about the miracle of the bread?
Yes, he replies.
Well, there is a second miracle of the bread.
You saw how the bread rose once in the pan and twice rose again in the oven?
He nods yes.
Be strong, my son.
You too shall rise like this bread.
It's been foretold.
Bread is the body of Christ, from which all gain nourishment and life.
Amen.
