The point by Vaz, Polaro's Dilemma, how none became one, one became two, two became three,
three became two, two became one, one became none. The tale of a point.
Zero. In the beginning there was nothing. Nothing being nothing is itself pointless.
A zero. But a zero being nothing becomes a dot of nothingness.
A point. A dot is a kind of point. The point having no direction compels
itself to move forward in search of another. Discovery. As the point moved forward it
discovers time, but no point. Having tired, the point pauses.
As the point surveys the surface, turning to its surprise it finds a line.
A line. Well, a line is fine, but where's the point? The perplexed point, not knowing a line,
is confused. Moving forward. Looking forward, not seeing another point, the point shifts
direction. As the point realigns its position it finds the line is following. The point again
shifts direction only to find in its way the line. Separation. The point jumps over the line and
looking back sees separation, but still no point. The point is distraught and begins
jumping up and down away from the line. Growth. Exhausted, the point stops jumping and looks to
see several other points. This pleases the point. Not only has it found one, but many points.
Curiosity. Well, the point moves forward to visit one of the points, but as they meet the other point
disappears. Connection. The point puzzled goes to another only for it to disappear as well,
and as the point continues to the remaining points it finds they too disappear as well.
Transformation. But while all this is occurring, something has changed about the point. Once
arriving at its point of origination it has merged with other points and transformed into a line.
A pathway. Once discovering there is more than one point, the point now a line becomes a pathway
connecting itself to others, thus completing the connection evolving into a kind of circle.
The circle. Once all points merge with the other points, the line transformed into a circle,
discovering that there is no point, only the circle.
The cycle. One continuous space where point, line, and time are joined becoming a whole.
Or maybe a whole. A space you fall into. Maybe a zero, something who's nothing.
And the cycle returns or begins once again. Who knows what we become, but we truly are transformed.
Conclusion.
Beginning. Thus this is how. None became one. One became two. Two became three. Three became two.
Two became one. One became none. The tale of a point. Peace. Vahs.
