In the beginning there was nothing. Nothing being nothing is itself pointless, a zero. But a zero being nothing becomes a dot of nothingness.
A dot is a kind of point. The point having no direction compels itself to move forward in search of another.
As the point moved forward it discovers time, but no point. Having tired, the point pauses. As the point surveys the surface, turning — to its surprise — it finds a line.
Well, a line is fine but where's the point? The perplexed point, not knowing a line, is confused.
Looking forward, not seeing another point, the point shifts direction. As the point realigns its position, it finds the line is following. The point again shifts direction only to find in its way the line.
The point jumps over the line and, looking back, sees separation — but still no point. The point is distraught and begins jumping up and down away from the line.
Exhausted, the point stops jumping and looks to see several other points. This pleases the point; not only has it found one, but many points.
Well, the point moves forward to visit one of the points. But as they meet, the other point disappears.
The point, puzzled, goes to another — only for it to disappear as well. And as the point continues to the remaining points, it finds they too disappear.
But while all this is occurring, something has changed about the point. Once arriving at its point of origination, it has merged with other points and transformed into a line.
Once discovering there is more than one point, the point — now a line — becomes a pathway connecting itself to others. Thus, completing the connection, evolving into a kind of circle.
Once all points merge with one another, the line transforms into a circle. Discovering that there is no point — only the circle.
One continuous space where point, line, and time are joined, becoming a whole. Or maybe a hole — a space you fall into? Maybe a zero… something whose nothing? And the cycle returns or begins once again? Who knows what we become; but we truly are transformed!
Thus, this is how: None became one, one became two, two became three, three became two, two became one, one became none.
